This website is designed to allow users to create a personalized virtual recipe box consisting of recipe cards they create. I wanted the site to be easy to navigate but also offer enough functionality to make it useful. Additionally, I wanted the site to mirror the rustic and homey feel associated with home-made food and family recipes.
Under the hood, the functionality of the website relies on four SQL tables. One table, called users, stores each user’s id, username, and the hash of their password. The second table, called ingredients, stores users’ ids, titles of recipes, ingredients, amounts of each ingredient and the units for those amounts. The third table, called instructions, stores users’ ids, titles of recipes and the instructions for each recipe. The fourth table, called grocerylist, stores users’ ids and grocery list items.
Most features of the website work by querying one or more of these tables to select or change the relevant data. The most challenging aspect of this project was figuring out how to retrieve form data from a variety of different input types and for a variable number of inputs. I found hidden inputs in each html page and html button values extremely useful for transmitting information from pages to routes. Additionally, using loop.index to give forms variable names, ids or values proved key to achieving the desired functionality. Once transmitted to the respective route, I found the .split and .partition methods for python strings useful in parsing out all the information returned from each form. I approached each page of the website with a similar strategy of using forms, inputs and then request.form.get() along with SQL queries to implement each feature. However, every page presented a unique challenge in handling all the input information and making sure all the necessary data could be sent to the appropriate route in a usable form.
To display the appropriate information on each page, I frequently used jinja for loops to iterate over the SQL query selected data. I included buttons and forms inside these loops to ensure that every ingredient or instruction could be accessed individually as necessary. I chose to do this to maximize the ease with which users can customize and change their recipe cards.
To implement the register/login/logout features, I reused the functions I wrote for register from pset#9 as well as the pset#9 source code. I altered the code slightly be removing the apology function wherever possible and replacing it with a required attribute in the appropriate input element of each html page wherever possible.
